cycling's great it's fun fast affordable
good for you and good for the
environment it's also very safe to
providing istic to a few common-sense
rules before you set out make sure your
saddle isn't set too high a quick way to
check this is to sit on the saddle and
see if you can rest your feet on the
ground this is something you may need to
do in emergency stopping situations
next check the handlebars are secure the
tires are pumped and of course check the
brakes and gears are working properly
it's also a good idea to keep the chiyan
oiled and fit a loud Bell you should do
all you can to help other road users
notice you so wear a reflective vest and
bright clothing
whenever you cycle having a bright white
front and red rear light isn't just
essential it's a legal requirement so
make sure the batteries are fresh
particularly if you haven't used your
lights for a while if there's one part
of your body you want to look after it's
your head a CEO proved en1 or 7/8
compliant helmet will give you the best
protection make sure it fits correctly
and get in the habit of wearing it every
single time you cycle your ears can
alert you to danger that your eyes may
have missed you can hear in 360 degrees
and round corners too so avoid using
mobile phones radios or mp3 players as
these will reduce your awareness of
other road users if you need a hearing
aid to hear properly don't ride without
it
following these simple rules will allow
you to enjoy all that cycling has to
offer without the work if you're in any
doubt about your bike clothing and
safety equipment check with your local
bike shop they'll be able to help cycle
smart cycle safe